Before election ,there is need of a process that could eliminate the circulation of fake news or fake propaganda relating a candidate contesting in the constituency for which we need a trusted source of information regarding all of these. Using blockchain’s immutable ledger technology, we devises a portal that will allow candidates to register themselves for the election submitting all the necessary information and documents using a public key. Information and documents will be authenticated by different governing body acting as a node using their respective private keys . The portal will also contain the propaganda and news regarding each candidate contesting as shared by those governing bodies. Taking account of remote areas, the same digitally signed information relating to the respective candidate will be circulated through local media and newspaper which will act as the only trustworthy information source as they will be stamped with cryptographic identifier that can be traced using blockchain technology. 

For voters’ registration, voters will go through a process where they will have to provide their information based on government approved ID along with their biometrics on the portal that we devised earlier. After the successful registration, they will be provided with their respective public and private keys which as registration keys. In this way, we can eliminate the cyber attack on voters’ registration database. And this way, Blockchain can be used to centralize the management of voter identities. 

Before the election, every constituency will have a co-ordinator to look after his constituency whose registration will be done in the same manner as that of the candidates. The main work of the co-ordinator is to login to the portal and make sure that in the voter’s profile list of his constituency candidates appear and lock it using his key. 

On the election day, biometric machines along with government approved ID will be used to verify the voters as per their registration done earlier. On successful verification of a particular voter, he/she is provided with both public and private keys and this will be called as election keys valid for that particular election only. The voter opens his profile using his private key and cast his vote and locks it using his/her private key. For every voter, the list of candidates will be shuffled. 

During counting of votes, profile of each individual voter will be uploaded where there will be no information of voter, instead it will contain only election key number along with the indication of casted vote respective to that key. The voter will be given a deadline within which voter can login to his profile using his/her election key which will show the respective key number and can verify on the portal whether the voted candidate is marked .This will give the voters the assurance that their votes has gone to the correct candidate which will increase the reliability of election. So voter and election officials can audit the outcome of election on public blockchain .Also this will increase the transparency of election.  

